After 2020 annual meeting, we announced an exciting new video project, the good news
according to Jesus.
Brother Anthony Morris made the following encouraging statement.
Will there be challenges over here?
Guaranteed, but if you ever want something done, that's what happens.
How true those words have proven to be.
Up to date, the largest feature drama audio video services had produced was a little
over 100 minutes in length.
The good news according to Jesus spans nearly 1,000 minutes of content.
We are happy to update you on this exciting project and share different ways Jehovah has
helped us to overcome various challenges.
His insisters already serving at the Austral Asia branch were key to helping us get the
facilities ready.
How did they handle this special assignment, especially during the pandemic?
We were all very excited, but as the scope of this project became clear, there were times
when we wondered how a small publisher base of around 68,000 would be able to fully support
this large undertaking.
We were a small department and it's a small branch that we're at, and all of a sudden
we had this project highlighted that it was three times our normal workload.
Right after we received approval for the project, the branch territory experienced terrible
bushfires, raging right throughout the country.
Straight after this were floods, so many of our brothers experienced double disasters.
As we then started to recover from this and build momentum to start the project, the
COVID-19 pandemic began.
All the deliveries of construction materials coming into the branch had to be quarantined,
all the bulk supplies that the construction department was using.
And so that meant there was a time period for those things to be unavailable for use.
And then the logistics of once all those bulk supplies came out of quarantine to then
move to where they're needed on the site when new deliveries are coming in and managing
that safely with the COVID-19 risks and the risks of interaction with the delivery drivers
and the contractors.
It was complicated and very time consuming for all involved.
We needed help from our brothers and sisters outside of Bethel.
So we put the call out and they came from all over the branch territory to help.
Many of them travelled days on rough and rugged roads to come and help us.
When they arrived, they spent a time in quarantine and then they were able to come and help
us safely on site.
There were specific items needed for the project, so we asked the brothers and sisters to help
us to see where or how we could obtain them.
It was so heartwarming to see all the responses flooding in.
Within a short amount of time, we had received offers for donations or loans, for much of
the heavy machinery or large equipment we needed and even things like plants for landscaping.
So we bought in a number of temporary workers and a number of remote workers as well.
We're added to the team.
And the branch committee made available a large car parking area so that we could quarantine
off all the deliveries and handle those things safely and in line with the guidelines.
So at the beginning of the project, the number was about 200 people in the family and that
quickly grew to around 500.
And while we have a beautiful kitchen here to serve food from, it wasn't really designed
for 500 meals each day.
The branch committee, as well as various departments, although they had a heavy workload themselves,
they were able to extend a helping hand where we lost commuters, we gained some workers
from various departments who helped us in various tasks within the food service.
So it was clear to everybody in the department and at the branch that it really needed to
be a team effort and everybody going above and beyond to make this work.
But that only takes you so far.
Jehovah's blessing on the arrangements, the qualities that he helps us to show the
motivation that he helps us to have to overcome those challenges and to take on things that
really are beyond what we can normally cope with.
And seeing that, particularly as we look back on a number of those challenges and how they've
been overcome, you see Jehovah's involvement day to day.
A brother had a trailer that was going to be donated to the project, but he didn't have
the funds to pay for the freight.
At the very same time, the sister contacted the branch and wanted to donate specifically
to the project.
The amount she donated was a amount that was needed to cover the freight to bring the
trailer to Bethel.
One brother made a 30-hour round trip to deliver a large quantity of goods he manufactured
for us.
He made this trip not once or twice, but multiple times, even planning the work around two surgeries
he had to have.
A number of trucks were required to freight the goods, so members of his family and congregation
shared in the driving, while local brothers extended hospitality.
I'm very impressed with the level of appreciation, the sense of gratitude that permeates the family,
and seeing that is a real boost for us and the real blessing.
We feel very appreciative for everyone who's been able to help on this project, recognising
their personal and collective sacrifices that have been made.
For those who have been able to come in and help us on the project, tell us how thankful
they are to have had a share in the project.
Only Jehovah can create a situation like this.
Jehovah always finds a way to help us do his will, often providing solutions we never
thought possible.
In addition to preparing the Australasia facility for the project, much work has been done
with script development, casting and location scouting.
How has this progressed?
We recognise that there would be many needed adjustments to the branch there as far as
facilities is concerned.
We knew that there would be the need for many volunteers to be involved in the project,
and we knew it was going to be coordinated from halfway around the world.
The challenge with finding locations for the Gospel accounts is that they need to look
like ancient lands, but be placed in a modern world.
They need to have no signs of civilisation, and yet be close enough to civilisation to
support our modern filming operations.
We were asked to flesh out an entire world, a culture and hundreds, actually thousands
of characters that appear in these accounts, to do so with very limited information actually
in the Bible.
How do we add enough details to connect with the audience, but without overstepping by
introducing teachings or ideas that contradict the Bible's message?
We can truly say it was a worldwide effort on the part of our brothers and sisters.
It was especially encouraging to see how young ones responded to this need.
They were looking to extend themselves in their service to Jehovah, and they were willing
to adjust their secular jobs, they were willing to move to other locations in order to be
able to support this project.
We were looking at how we could accomplish so many auditions in a shorter period of time.
So we came up with the idea of a self-guided audition, where we put a package together identifying
how the audition needs to be accomplished, and we send it to the publisher that's being
auditioned, and they record their own audition and send it back to us for processing.
While we were at some of the locations, we actually did test filming.
We put actors in wardrobe in front of the camera and recreated certain scenes to see how
this location could be used for our project.
We were able to travel to more than a dozen locations during a month, and everyone returned
happy and healthy.
There's some accounts in the gospels that reference large groups, such as the sermon
on the Mount, and when Jesus preached from the boat, how would we show that many people?
The team took time to test various methods, including some computer graphics, as well
as different styles and methods to be used to duplicate people for these large crowds.
The production team was able to see what did and did not work, and this is very beneficial
because it helps us to plan appropriately for the actual production day.
And so it's simply a matter of going and doing as much research as possible to find out
what is known.
And of course, there's an entire team devoted to doing research for our publications, and
we have access to those brothers and sisters.
Something that has been incredibly valuable for every screenwriter on this project is to
see members of the teaching committee sit at every table read for each script, and then
proceed to give us direction, ask questions, give us direction on what to go and research
further, what to remove, and in many cases, what to add.
It shows how deeply they're invested in the story of Jesus' life.
It felt like Jehovah had taken us and placed us into a land thousands of years ago.
When we got to these various locations, we literally would jump out of the vehicles
and run across the landscape and excitement for how we could potentially use them.
One of the biggest challenges we had was getting everyone back into the vehicles so that
we could go on to the next location.
We went to one property, and when we talked with the brother, he said, this isn't my property.
This belongs to Jehovah.
I'm holding on to it.
I'm not sure why, hoping that perhaps Jehovah can use it in some way.
And when you think about all of our brothers and sisters coming together to support this
initiative, it really has been a blessing to be able to witness that.
It really reminds me of what is said in Psalm 133 verse 1 where it said it would be good
to see brothers and sisters dwelling together in unity.
And we've seen that goodness.
We've seen our brotherhood really rally around supporting this project in so many ways,
and it has contributed towards a spirit that has allowed Jehovah to bless the work.
Would you like to see how the design and construction aspects of the work are progressing, including
the historical sets?
One of the biggest challenges we've had in the design construction world is to get the
mentality that we're designing and building something that needs to look 2,000 years old.
We're used to building modern buildings, and we're used to using the materials that we have today,
but to now use those to provide something that was ancient, that was going to be quite the challenge.
In Jesus' ministry, he went to numerous different towns,
and those towns would have had different looks because of the natural products that were available
to the tradesmen then to build those buildings.
Back in ancient Israel, the building materials would have been stone, so they would have used limestone,
basalt, field stones, and even clay bricks.
There's probably just over 100 doors and gates out there.
There's also over 200 windows and we've got shutters,
and all of these need either timber lentils or timber seals.
You have tradesmen that are used to getting things you could say nearly perfect.
Normally, as a renderer or a plasterer, you would cover up cracks,
but here we're having to actually create these.
That can be quite a challenge.
Back a few years ago, there were various branches that were put forward as possibilities, as options,
and in the end, the Austral Asia branch was chosen.
At the time, in the design construction world, we thought that was an interesting choice,
but during 2020, during the pandemic, we found out in retrospect
that it was one of the only places on Earth where this project could be completed now.
Because of the low incidence of COVID in the country,
we were able to use outside contractors to come into the project to do part of the site works for us.
So, it's been a blessing to have the project take place at this location.
Those that we had on site here already, they were very open-minded,
and they had a lot of creative thinking when it came to building historical sets now with modern materials.
So, we have about 7,000 square metres of render to accomplish,
and we'll have two teams working full-time for several months to accomplish this.
In this particular type of work, nobody's trade really counted.
Everybody had to try, and many of our sisters, in fact, were the ones that had the skills that were needed
to create the historical effect that was required.
To achieve the weathering that would happen on the stone, if it sat there for hundreds of years out in the weather,
the water would get into the stone and slowly break it down.
So, then there's going to be areas of the stone that are softer, so they'll wear away quicker,
so then that's done with the wire brush, and then some spots with the acetone,
it puts little divots into the stone which occur naturally in limestone.
Once the project's completed in the back lot,
the brothers and sisters would have applied up to like 4,500 square metres of stone finished to the buildings.
It's been amazing to see how with a variety of backgrounds, despite this,
they've been able to achieve quite amazing things.
Just their willing spirit prepared to take on board the instruction,
and we can see Jehovah's blessing behind it.
In the temple area, in the back lot, there's a little over 4,000 square metres of concrete
that has been made to look like stone.
Well, one of the contractors that quoted on the job was actually a brother,
and that particular brother said, well, you know what, I can volunteer to do this,
and there's enough brothers around that we can bring together,
and we would be more than happy to be able to do it on a volunteer basis.
So, an isolated area was set up, where these brothers could test and sample
and produce the concrete that was needed for the floor finish of the temple.
So, over 27 days of straight pause,
we had approximately 30 brothers and sisters each day come in and work tirelessly
to be able to accomplish this temple floor for us.
The last day of the concrete pull, we wanted to surprise the brothers,
because someone had made a sign saying, united in spirit.
But actually, the construction both the lights surprised us.
They all had balloons and signs, and it spelt out, thank you.
I think that just reflected how we love each other,
and we'd give our life for each other,
because we both serve the same God and we love Jehovah.
Three lots of sleepless lights and bear prayer about it.
We ended up finding a brother who owned a sawmill and had property with trees on it,
and he willingly chopped down the trees on his property
and provided them for us to deliver them to site and actually donated them to us,
and they were exactly what we needed.
We also had specific prayers at certain times about certain matters,
and then 30 minutes later we received answers.
That definitely also was no coincidence.
And then obviously getting the right approvals at just at the right time,
despite objections, we know that there's not on us other than Jehovah
that could have a hand in that.
So it's obvious that Satan has put everything he can in front of us,
but Jehovah has provided every time at the right time.
It's no coincidence that he's hand has been on this,
and there is no doubt that he wants people to know about his son, Jesus.
Seeing the collaboration in our monthly meetings with the entire team,
where we have the World Headquarters Legal Department,
the World Headquarters Computer Department,
we have the purchasing department, we have design construction,
we have the regional video teams, we have audio video services,
all of these groups, along with the branch in Australasia,
working together for a common goal as a team.
It has been amazing and a very face strengthening experience.
We were happy to share this update with you.
But you might still be wondering,
how are actors being prepared to reach our hearts through their performance?
How will the tone and filming style be selected to represent the gospel accounts?
And maybe the biggest question you have is,
when will cameras start rolling?
Stay tuned for a future update.
Imagine the powerful impact this video series will have on people.
It will help you and me follow Jesus' footsteps closely.
It will help us draw closer to Jehovah,
whom Jesus perfectly imitated as a human.
But the benefits go far beyond you and me.
As stated in the 2020 Annual Meeting,
it is likely this series will be used to touch the hearts and minds
of billions of resurrected ones in the coming new world.
Just think how this video series could help them learn about the example that Jesus set.
Imagine how the visual portrayal of his warm humble and approachable personality
will help them to come to know Jehovah intimately.
How exactly will we use this new series to teach resurrected ones?
We will have to wait and see what Jehovah directs.
We are confident Jehovah is blessing this work.
And we will continue to look to Jehovah for direction
as we move ahead with the good news according to Jesus.